[DOCS-8454] Consolidate guides: Feature Flags (#25073)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/feature_flag_tracking/using_feature_flags.md

---
title: Using Feature Flags
beta: true
description: View and understand your feature flag's health and usage.
aliases:
- /real_user_monitoring/guide/getting-started-feature-flags/
- /real_user_monitoring/guide/setup-feature-flag-data-collection/
disable_toc: false
further_reading:
- link: "/real_user_monitoring/guide/setup-feature-flag-data-collection/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Set up Feature Flag data collection"
- link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about the RUM Explorer"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/feature-flag-tracking/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Ensure release safety with feature flag tracking in Datadog RUM"
---

Once you have set up your feature flag data collection, navigate to the [**Feature Flags**][1] tab within RUM.

From this view, you can investigate any questions you have about your feature flag's health and usage.

> - Monitor the number of users experiencing each variant and see summary statistics of your feature flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Monitor the number of users experiencing each variant and see summary statistics of your feature flag.
```

> - Check the [status](#feature-flag-status) of your feature flag to see if there are any that can be removed for code clean up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Check the [status](#feature-flag-status) of your feature flag to see if there are any that can be removed for code clean up.
```

> - View which pages your feature flags are being evaluated on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- View which pages your feature flags are being evaluated against.
```

Feature flags show up in the context of events where they are evaluated, meaning they should show up on the views that the feature flag code logic is run on.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/feature_flag_tracking/feature-flag-list-2.png" alt="View a list of your feature flags to investigate any questions you have about your feature flag's health and usage" style="width:90%;" >}}

## Search and filter
Search and filter your feature flags by typing in the search bar. You can also use the faceted search to narrow down, broaden, or shift your focus on subsets of feature flags you are interested in.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/feature_flag_tracking/feature-flag-list-search-filter.png" alt="Feature Flag list search bar and filtering" style="width:90%;" >}}

## Feature flag status
There are three possible feature flag statuses:

Active

> : The feature flag has evaluated different variants for the past 2 weeks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The feature flag has evaluated different variants for the past 2 weeks.
```

Inactive

> : For the past 2 weeks, there have only been feature flag evaluations for your control variant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: For the past 2 weeks, there have only been feature flag evaluations for your control variant.
```

Out to 100%

> : For the past 2 weeks, there have only been feature flag evaluations for one of your non-control variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: For the past 2 weeks, there have only been feature flag evaluations for one of your _non-control_ variants.
```
might be helpful here to italicize this since it's so similar as the above sentence

## Analyze your feature flags

> To get more details about the health and performance of your feature flag, you can click the flag in the list to navigate to a dedicated feature flag analysis dashboard. The Feature Flag analysis dashboard provides an overview of the performance of your feature flag, displaying information about user sessions, changes in your Core Web Vitals, and error rates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get more details about the health and performance of your feature flag, you can click the flag in the list to navigate to a dedicated Feature Flag analysis dashboard. The Feature Flag analysis dashboard provides an overview of the performance of your feature flag, displaying information about user sessions, changes in your Core Web Vitals, and error rates. 
```
not sure if this should be capitalized or lowercase but just making it consistent.

These out-of-the-box graphs are aggregated across your flag variants, making it easy to spot problems in your feature releases before they turn into serious issues. This dashboard provides an easy way to monitor your feature releases and allows you to quickly roll back as soon as you spot an issue so you can avoid negative user experiences. 

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/feature_flag_tracking/feature-flag-details-page.mp4" alt="Feature Flag details page - Users overview" video=true width=90% >}}

- The **Users** tab provides some high level summary statistics of your feature flag and allows you to further analyze the users viewing each of your feature flag variants by any attribute. If you want to understand what it looks like for someone who experienced a certain variant versus another, you can watch a [Session Replay][2] for each case.

> - The **Issues** tab gives you a view of the errors that are occurring in your application for user sessions that have your feature flag. See if any issues detected by [Error Tracking][3] occurred for a specific variant of your feature flag and may be related to your changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The **Issues** tab gives you a view of the errors that are occurring in your application for user sessions that have your feature flag. Check if any issues detected by [Error Tracking][3] occurred for a specific variant of your feature flag and might be related to your changes.
```
